var1=		I
 
That was the bare back of Madhuri Dixit, the very one Salman Khan had aimed at and hit with the pebble from his slingshot. Undulating from the waist, she froze at the sting in her back and turned around to look. Her gaze held no pain-rather, a flirtatious excitement, inviting him toward her. Those eyes didn't belong to Madhuri Dixit, but to a startled doe-an intoxicated, mad, silly, doe who lovingly served herself up to her hunter. 

Rahul had taped the photo-it was center spread in that month's <i>Stardust</i>-over the window in his room. The blazing sun made the afternoons on the second floor in Room 252 hard to take. Madhuri Dixit's wounded, bare back repelled the intense afternoon sun from his hostel room. She turned her neck and stared continuously at Rahul with those silly, drunken eyes, as if it had been Rahul who'd made a target of her beautiful, wounded back.

Aside from Rahul, no one knew that during a private moment of utter secrecy, he had Salman Khan quietly kicked out of Room 252 and took the movie star's place. Rahul shivered with excitement as he realized that the man who had wounded Madhuri Dixit's gorgeous, voluptuous back was none other than he himself. It was his slingshot that launched the pebble with a crack that whizzed into Madhuri Dixit, who then let loose an "Oooooooh!"- just as the image in <i>Stardust</i> had been snapped.

Girls enjoy being roughed up. They aren't kitty cats or other small, furry animals that purr and roll around when you pet them sweetly. A girl is a different kind of creature-the rougher it gets, the sharper the slap, the more she likes it. 

The truth? Girls love brute strength. 

That's why Rahul began to go to the university gym, to beef up his biceps like Salman Khan's. A back like a cheetah and a torso like a leopard. He wanted to mold himself into a sleek, savage, fleet-footed wild animal. And then? Dark Ray Bans, a pair of Wranglers or Levis, a t-shirt, and Nike socks to go with a winning pair of Woodland shoes.

He used to wonder why he didn't feel the same way about Lara Datta, Manpreet Brar, or Gul Panag as he did about Madhuri. After all, she was quite a bit older than him. He'd just seen a film with Miss Universe, Aishwarya Rai. She shook her bare back and pranced around just like Madhuri did, and then twisted her neck back and forth while staring at Rahul with her brown eyes. But shit. It didn't work. Aishwarya had nothing on Madhuri. The different between Madhuri's back and all the others was the difference between the sky and the earth. There was something about that back of Madhuri-the texture, the build, the hue-that Aishwarya and the others couldn't match.

Rahul did a comparative study. The bodies of Gul Panag, Sushmita, Lara, and the rest struck him as awfully artificial. The dieting, the exercise, all that was required to maintain a model's figure had created these plastic bodies. On top of that, the waxing, facials, spas, and who knows what else. They struck Rahul as non-human, synthetic dolls. Even the hair on their heads and their bodies didn't look real-the shadows in their armpits after shaving even looked like artificial coloring. But it wouldn't take much-two weeks max. Feed them like humans, let them live like normal girls do, and they'd fatten up and get baggy bellies. You wouldn't recognize them. But Madhuri was a different species entirely. You could drop her into a slum, let her live in this hostel room, even feed her the institutional fare of daal, rice, and vegetables found in the college mess hall, and she wouldn't change a whit. She'd keep the same miraculous radiance and the same dazzling beauty.

Madhuri's back was natural and authentic and, astonishingly, a swadeshi one. Made In India. The others were unnatural, foreign imports, and that's why they held no magic, Rahul deduced. But far more momentous was his other conclusion: that girls took pleasure from pain, violence, and strength. And what they enjoyed most was being humiliated, oppressed, and abused. Times had changed. No one paid attention anymore to '60s and '70s film-idol types like Shammi Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor, Vishwajeet, and Jitentra. Today's girls were crazy for the macho, sadistic sort like Salman Khan, Sunny Deol, and Ajay Devgan. How violent and menacing Shah Rukh Khan had been in <i>Darr</i>: calling Juhi Chawla on the phone at all hours, stalking her, trying to rape her, somehow smearing her with blood. Juhi was rendered speechless with fright. And yet it was this half-schizophrenic madman, Shah Rukh Khan, that all the girls in school went ga-ga over.

A Shah Rukh, that's what girls wanted, not some kowtowing Krishna-like husband. Rahul solved the mystery, and since then Madhuri Dixit has been living in the window of Room 252. It's been four months.
 
II
 
Rahul had taken an unusual career path. First, he'd completed an M.S.C. in organic chemistry. Then suddenly his spirit was stirred toward anthropology. The reasons were a bit fuzzy, but it might have had something to do with encouragement given to Rahul by certain cousin of his, who was an internationally renowned anthropologist and who lately had been appointed as the Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India. He used to come to Rahul's village, sometimes staying at their house for a few weeks at a time. Rahul's father was his favorite uncle, and the two of them got on extremely well. Rahul's duty was to look after his cousin, Kinnu Da.

Rahul heard that Kinnu Da's book on adivasis-the tribal people of India-had been published by Penguin and caused a worldwide stir. Before it came out, people only discussed the usual group of Brahmins, landowners, businessmen, Hindus, and Muslims when talking about the fight against the British. Up until then, historians had molded leaders who came from those privileged backgrounds. Almost no adivasis or untouchables showed up in those stories, which were dominated by the likes of Laxmibai, Tatya Tope, a raja here, Nana Sahib, a landowner there, Kunwar Singh, Fadanvis, Azimullah, Mangal Pandey, or some nawab. The same kind of leaders were then held up as twentieth-century icons: Nehru, Gandhi, Tilak, Jinnah, Suharwardi, Patel, and the rest, most of whom also came from a high caste and wealthy social class. Once in a blue moon the name of Dr. Ambedkar would pop up. The task of writing the constitution for independent India was entrusted to this man, who came from a caste of untouchables, in recognition of his singular genius. Yet he's been the target of a smear campaign-sometimes accused of being an agent of the English, other times portrayed as someone who wanted to wipe out Hinduism in India and propagate Buddhism instead. In other words, more of the villain than the hero.

The book made such waves because, for the first time, the tale of the struggle of adivasi leaders was told, too. From regions like Singhbhumi and Jharkand, including Chota Nagpur, Kinnu Da's book contained well-documented, heartbreaking stories that had, until then, existed only as living folklore in the undeveloped regions of Bihar, Bengal, and Orissa. 

The more Kinnu Da spoke, the more Rahul felt that organic chemistry was a waste. What would he do with his degree? He'd become a chemist in a brewery or in some food processing plant owned by a multinational. Or he'd get a teaching job in some college or university. He began to envision his future as a fat, whiny man, feasting on pizza like a pig, chomping down a plate of fish garnished with curd or vinegar, all the while getting drunk and dancing with some rented teenage girl, enticing her by shaking his pot belly and pumpkin patch's worth of saggy ass.

That's exactly the kind of man-fat, gluttonous, licentious, corrupt, a cheat and a gentleman-this country and system were set up to serve. All the shiny stores, the legions of police, battalions of soldiers: they existed to cater to the pleasure and gratification of that man. If I worked as an organic chemist, I'd have to devote my whole life to churning out tasty and good-for-you consumables for that man, Rahul thought. That life, which the compassionate creator of the universe, acting with great kindness, has given, once and only once, to worthless me.

<i>Shit!</i> The bastard is wheezing, one foot dangling in the grave, unable to walk properly because he's so fat. But he's still munching away. He needs one thing after the next to put in his mouth. His palate requires new flavors all the time. Scientists all over the world are researching how best to please his tongue. All five senses of his embarrassing flabby body require cutting-edge pleasures and never-ending kicks. His hippo-like snout calls for all styles of fragrances. The entire perfume industry exists in order to eviscerate any odors before they get to his nose. As an organic chemist, my talent, genius, and creativity would be pressed into the service of satisfying the ever-growing lust of that man's senses and fulfilling the desires of that libertine tub.

And this is the man that women everywhere are ripping their clothes off for. All the beauty parlors in the city have the women lie down and either wax the hair off, or use electrolysis, just as herdsmen used to shear their sheep for wool. Rahul watched how these middle- and lower-middle-class girls formed herds of lamb and burst into the beauty parlors that were sprouting up everywhere like mushrooms. They'd reemerge, sleek and varnished. Spreading their legs, they straddled that man's big belly. They were called "The Bold and the Beautiful" on TV, while he was the potbellied old-man known as "The Rich and the Famous."

The man was mighty indeed. The world's greatest evil geniuses fashioned him by dint of hard work, ingenuity, capital, and patented techniques. New technology played an important role in his creation. What kind of powers were at the man's disposal? We can only begin to guess while watching his true story, collecting centuries' worth of theories, opinions, principles, philosophies, and ideas carefully crafted throughout history. And then, in one fell swoop, reducing them all to rubble. He then sweeps up the remains, out back, and onto the rubbish heap that lies just behind his very own majestic bungalow. Those trashed principles were the ones that put checks on man's otherwise spiraling desires, while sanctifying other principles. 

Don't eat too much, don't make too much money, don't harm too much, don't sleep too much, don't have sex too much, don't dance too much. All of those moral doctrines-also found in religious texts and in civic, scientific, and diplomatic books-have been tossed wholesale in the rubbish bin. In the final decades of the twentieth century, this man has seized all the forces of wealth and power and technology and has declared: freedom! <i>Freedom!</i> he cries. Let all your desires be awakened! Let all of your senses wander and graze upon this earth. Whatever is in this world is for your enjoyment. There is neither nation nor country. The entire planet is yours. Nothing is moral, nothing is immoral. There is no sin, no act of virtue. Eat, drink, and be merry. Dance! <i>Boogie-woogie</i>. Sing! <i>Boogie-woogie</i>. Eat! <i>Boogie-woogie</i>. Pig out! <i>Boogie-woogie</i>. Make that six-figure salary! <i>Boogie-woogie</i>. All of the earth's commodities are for your consumption! <i>Boogie-woogie</i>. And remember to count woman among those commodities. <i>Boogie-woogie</i>.

This mighty, porky man proposed a new doctrine that the Finance Minster of India readily agreed to and then himself dove right into the man's pocket. This was the principle: don't stop the man from eating. The food that falls from his plate could feed millions of starving people with his continental, restorative leftovers. Don't stop that man from chasing skirts. Popping Viagra like candy, he beds one girl after the next and readies them for the legions of unwitting Indian bachelors who may then lavish affection on them and take them as wives. 

So that was the principle the man wove like a web around all four corners of the earth. Then he oversaw the change of civilization. All of the TV channels and computers were buzzing with the broadcast of his philosophy.

Here at end of the twentieth century and threshold of the twenty-first, it's come to this: people have begun to forget the names Premchand, Gandhi, Tolstoy, and Tagore. The bestselling book in stores today? <i>The Road Ahead</i>, by Bill Gates. 

That rich, potbellied, gluttonous man was getting a massage in some expensive resort in Iceland, surrounded by several Miss Universes from the poor third world. Remembering something, he suddenly reached for his cell phone and dialed a number.

Miss Universe slipped him a Viagra, which he took. Then he squeezed her breasts. "Hallo! This is Nikhalani speaking on behalf of the I.M.F. Get me to the Prime Minister!"

"Yes, Yes! Nikhalani-ji! How are you, sir? This is the Prime Minister speaking."

"Stroke it gently... rub it a bit more! Oh, that's more like it," that man said, sweetly teasing Miss Universe, and then returned to his cell phone. "Why have you taken so long, man? Hurry up! The power sector, IT, Food, Health, Education, everything! Hurry up and privatize it! Quick, please. And sell off the public sector companies. Disinvest! I need to buy everything, man!"

"OK, OK, be patient. Your humble servant is doing his duty. But you know my problem. In this hodge-podge government, you can't expect all of the daal to soften at once, Nikhalani-ji."

"Take it in your mouth... <i>Lo... My Lolita.</i>" The Rich and the Famous potbellied one caressed Miss Universe's head and let out a groan of encouragement. "I'm disappointed, Panditji! How much money did I pump into your party funds? And the donations, the deposits-all direct! You people move as fast as a dirty earthworm. How are we gonna fix the economy at this rate? You haven't even cut off the subsidies yet!"

"It'll happen, Nikhalani-ji! I've already begun the food oil importation. That's why farmers with sunflower, soybean, and oilseed crops were wiped out. If we took away their subsidies right after that, there'd be an uproar. Your instructions are being carried out, don't worry. We're just taking one step at a time."

"Hurry up, Panditji! I've got high blood pressure. This much excitement isn't good for my health. Let those sisterfucking farmers starve. OK?"

The man turned off his cell phone and took a big gulp of scotch. Unwinding, he said, "Where's that runner-up from Venezuela? Send her in."
 
III
 
Kinnu Da addressed Rahul. "The most extraordinary thing about the adivasis is that they have so few needs. They cause very little damage to the environment. I've documented adivasi communities in Singhbhumi, Jharkhand, Mayurbhanj, Bastar, and the Northeast who still practice slash-and-burn agriculture and confine themselves to raw, roasted, or boiled foods. They won't even fry their food. This is man in his natural state. And keep in mind, they fought like hell against the British for autonomy and self-rule. But historians never included that chapter in their versions of history. The reality is that history is a document of power and politics. Whichever class, caste, or ethnic group is on top will fashion history to suit its needs. I've always said that the history of this indigenous state and its people remains to be written."

Rahul was afraid. Just a few days back he'd seen a film called <i>Stigmata. The messenger will be silenced</i>. Truth and information are two different things. Truth is like dynamite to the information industry. Therefore, the truth must be crushed. <i>The truth must be defused.</i> 

Pitter-patter. A leaf falls.

Pitter-patter. A sacred fruit full of nectar drops silently and too soon in a barren place.

Pitter-patter. Another murder or suicide will be committed, buried with scant notice on page three in tomorrow's paper.

Pitter-patter, pitter-patter! Time is passing. The earth is spinning on its axis.

Kinnu Da kept getting transferred from one adivasi region to the next. <i>He's crazy, a real nutcase</i>-that's how his colleagues in the civil service talked about him behind his back. <i>All that time in government service, and he's broke, except for his pension. He can barely afford a flat in Delhi.</i>

Rahul started to sour of organic chemistry, which began to smell of the stench of vinegar and fermentation. The entire field became synonymous with a chamber filled with the fat man's belches and body odor.

So instead, I'll do an MA in anthropology, and then a PhD, Rahul thought. And I will endeavor to reach the root of this problem known as mankind. O supreme one! Give me the strength and faith to discover how Satan managed to sabotage history for his own benefit! 

But what about Madhuri Dixit? And her back?

And her startled, doe-like eyes?

Rahul crumpled a piece of paper into a ball, loaded it into the slingshot, and drew it back as far as he could. <i>Pfffff!</i> The paper ball whizzed through the air and hit Madhuri Dixit right on the back.

"Oooooooh!" came her sweet voice, soaked in music and infused with quivering pain. The doe turned her head and looked lovingly at her hunter.

"Thank you, Rahul! Thank you for the injury. I love you!"
 
IV
 
It was the second month after the beginning of the term. The university was known as the "Cambridge of India" and it spread over a few hundred acres surrounded by mountains scattering far into the distance. Students came here to study from Japan, Indonesia, Fiji, Mauritius, and even from a few African countries. The chair of the geology department was the world famous Professor Watson. He'd turned down offers from all the major academic institutions in the U.S., France, and Germany in favor of India, since the astonishing variety of what he found here was better for his research. 

"This country is a living museum of wonders. Countless cultures, histories, races, and castes... We've found evidence of human civilization here as long ago as several hundred thousand years: alive, robust, burning brightly. And what applies to people equally applies to the ground we're standing on."

Dr. Watson went on. Bending over, he picked up a rock, which he examined with great care. "Look at this. This rock reveals the lava stage of the mountain on which this university was established. Look carefully. It's actually a fossil, a thousand-maybe a hundred thousand years old. And it's the fossil of some aquatic life. Right on this spot, where we're standing now, was once an ocean."

The people standing around suddenly looked confused. An ocean? Here? In Madhya Pradesh?

Rahul was pleased. He'd been assigned to the second floor of the Tagore hostel, Room 252, with a roommate, O.P., Omkar Prasad. O.P. was six foot three, thin like a bamboo stick, with a neck like a heron's, bobbing at every step. He was a joker and a chatterbox and declared, "I'll get married to four-and-a-half-foot dwarf. It'll really give these mountain people something to look at when we make love in the 'standing position.'"

Rahul pictured himself strolling in town in the shadow of the mountain. Looking up into the sky he admires the full moon, shining like a golden plate in the sky. His gaze wanders over the peak of the highest mountain where he notices a gigantic man, naked as Adam.

Rahul makes out an impish apparition fastened to the giant's waist like a tiny woman, and then the wind carries a <i>thump</i> to Rahul's ears-a sound like someone drumming on an hourglass- shaped damaru. <i>Thump! Thump! Thump!</i>

The figures sway back and forth. Who are they? O.P. and his fantasy girl? Or the maiden of the rock? The daughter of the Himalayas? It's Shiva and Parvati!

So this was the cosmic union from which the world was created. <i>Thump! Thump! Thump!
 
namami samisam niwaran rupam, vibhuam vyapakam bahma ved swarupam
ajuam nirgunam nirvikalpam niriham, cidakasamakas vasam bhajeham
nirankar monkar mulam turiyam</i>
 
Father used to get up at half past four every morning, bathe, and then perform puja to Shiva. Sometimes this chanting, these lines of prayer echoing through the house woke Rahul in the silence of the dawn. 

V
 
O.P. proved to be a very good friend. To meet his expenses, Rahul was forced to tutor two students, and none other than O.P. had arranged it. He'd been studying at the university for two years. He'd already completed his M.Sc. in criminology and now was doing further research. O.P. didn't need to worry about funds, since he was receiving a prestigious UGC scholarship. 

Rahul discovered that the very contours of the university were changing fast. In the past few years, foreign students had stopped applying. Internationally renowned thinkers like Dr. Watson wanted out, and were putting out feelers elsewhere. The situation was deteriorating.

He heard about the female student from Mauritius who'd been abducted last year by some goondas who then had raped and killed her. The thugs threw her body into a ditch under a footbridge. O.P. warned Rahul, "You'd better be careful and keep your wits about you. When you go into town, don't start anything with anyone. Even when you're buying a ticket at the cinema, don't flash a 100- or 500-rupee note, because it's not just the guy sitting in the booking window. It's everyone: the paan seller and the chaat vendor; they're all in on the racket. If they suspect you're the boy of some Assamese high roller, they'll come by the hostel any old day and whisk you off. Every year you hear about dozens of abductions. It's an old dacoit stomping ground. Devi Singh, Malkhan Singh, Mohar Singh, Tahsildar Singh, that whole gang of dacoits used to prowl around here and cause trouble."

Rahul realized that O.P. hadn't been exaggerating. Even the postman was in cahoots with the goondas. Money orders from families of students from South India or distant places usually arrived on the first of the month. The goondas knew exactly which boys got how much. As soon as the clock struck 9:30 on the night of money-order day, a couple of Jeeps would pull up to the hostel. Out they'd come bearing hockey sticks, cycle chains, iron rods, homemade pistols-any weapons they could get easily get their hands on cheap from the local mechanic. They addressed one another with nicknames like Ajju, Lacchu, Acchan, Babban, Cuppy, Penda, Guddu, Dabba, Boxy. To denote rank and seniority they'd add little brother, elder brother, or guru. So there'd be Acchan guru or a brother Lacchu . Every so often someone would even achieve the rank of Ustad-Parasu Ustad, for example. These guys were connected with local politicians and police, and they also wielded considerable influence in student politics and within the university administration. The goondas called students who came from Assam, Manipur, or Arunachal "monkeys" or "mallu"; South Indians or students from other countries were "rundu."

A Manipuri student named Sapam Tomba lived in Room 212. He was handsome, robust, a quick student and a good badminton player. He and Rahul had gotten to know each other well. Sapam was in his first year of an M.Sc. in botany. A couple of weeks ago, at home near Imphal, his older brother, a primary school teacher, was killed by gunfire. Sapam cried and cried. He wasn't able to return to Manipur to attend his brother's funeral: first because he didn't have enough money for the trip, and second because his father forbade him from coming home. Incidents related to the insurgency in Manipur were on the rise, and the whole state was overrun with the Indian Army and Border Security Force personnel that executed "combing operations" and had "encounters" every day.

"If I go home, they'll say I am a PLA member and shoot me. It's safer here than there," Sapam said.

The goondas had gotten into Sapam's room, too. They took his watch, 600 rupees from a money order, a tea kettle, and a thermos. But that wasn't the worst of it. They made Sapam strip naked and tried to make him pee on the hot electric heater. They tortured him until he gave up; Sapam passed out cold from the electric shock. He still hadn't gotten back to normal. It broke him. He'd cry and ask, "Where should I go? How can I study? Tell me what to do!"
 
O.P., Rahul, and a few other students pitched in to pay Sapam's mess bill and school fees. "Manipuri people want to separate from India. If an election were held today, the number of Manipuris and Nagas voting for separatist camp would exceed even the numbers in Kashmir." 

How did this happen?

Sapam said that many women in Manipur who have become widows, including his own aunt, have gone to Brindavan, home of Krishna. The famous Ras Lila, performed in honor of Krishna, was now staged in villages all over Manipur, and the festivals included devotional hymns in praise of Krishna. In the seventeenth century, Gaurang Mahaprabhu Chaitanya spread his devotional poetry and songs from Bengal until they echoed throughout Manipur. The result was that all of the people, including adivasis, became Vaishnavas, devotees of Krishna. These simple, sweet, straightforward, thoughtful people, living the difficult life of the mountains, Mongol or Tibeto-Burmese Meiteis and adivasis, attached surnames like Sharma and Singh to their names. As if Chaitanya had flooded their spiritually barren souls with a torrent of salubrious nectar. In 1947, after partition, Manipur held a referendum and by the will of its people decided to join the Republic of India. 

So why has it come to this? Within fifty years, why do 99% of the people want independence from India?

Sapam spoke: "The Mayang foreigners looted so much from us. They took our girls. They humiliated us. The market, trade, employment-the Mayang controlled everything. If you were daring enough to say something, you'd be labeled a secessionist. If the army left Manipur, there'd be independence the next day." He continued, "During the British time, we gave our blood to Subhash Bose's Indian National Army. We fought for India's independence all the way to Burma. Now we'll fight for our own independence. Mark my words: we'll be free from India before Kashmir is."

Rahul decided that university life wasn't as easy as he first thought. First you had to worry about security, and then the studying all the time, reading thick anthropology books, trying to get to the root of mankind and civilization, and gazing at Madhuri Dixit's back. It wasn't so simple. The local goondas could break in at any moment and put a gun to your head. We are prey living in a cruel, criminal, and degrading time. It's an age of thugs, counterfeiters, smugglers, and contractors. Nowadays, righteous and upstanding Indians suffer in this stew like Kashmiris, Manipuris, or Naxalites do.

Kinnu Da explained, "Last month I was invited to take part in a seminar in New York. I had the minimum 500 dollars with me. I'd never brought more cash than that, because I can't spend it. But this time, for the first time, they questioned me. I was asked very rudely, 'How are you going to get by with this? Why didn't you bring more with you?'" Kinnu Da continued, "The truth is that the world now belongs to the businessmen. They bring hundreds of thousands of dollars with them when they travel. Billions of transactions occur. They can't fathom that there are still some people left in India who aren't interested in making a fortune, and who travel to America or France not to do business, but for academic or other reasons."

So globalization exists only for those who are part of the world market: speculators, businessmen, bootleggers, criminals, government ministers, and officials. Suppose someone like the humanitarian Dr. Kotnis wanted to go to China, or someone like the communist-agitator-Tibeto-Buddhologist monk Mahapandit Rahul Sankrityayan wanted to go to Russia or Central Asia. Would it be possible?

<i>"Not at all!"</i> says Kartikeya. <i>"This is the end of the civil society.</i> It's vanished from everywhere. Only governments, companies, institutions, the Mafia, and interest groups remain. If, by chance, you happen to see some writer, poet, or thinker sitting on a plane taking a trip abroad, you can be sure that he's just a middleman or lackey, on the take, working for some company, institution, or concern. <i>Always doubt his integrity!"</i>

Kartikeya Kajle was from Pune. As well as doing research in geology, he was getting ready for the civil service exam. He told Rahul that he, too, should try for it.

After Sapam, the goondas went after Madhusudan, a student from Kerala, who was beaten so badly that he jumped from the second floor in fright and wound up breaking his legs. Rahul, O.P., and Kartikeya went to the hospital to visit him. His father had written him a telegram instructing him to apply for an academic transfer and return to Cochin at once. Madhusudan was distraught. His entire career had been ruined.

One day, Rahul was with Anima, Aabha, Deepti, Manmohan, and Raju, headed from the department to the canteen near the library. Someone from group of six or seven boys hanging out by the side of the road threw a rock that hit him on the back of head. Anima shrieked. There was no blood. Then one of them shouted, "Hey big hero! Nice hair. Just like Rahul Ray."

"How can you be so rude," Anima scolded. 

"Hey sister. Are you gonna bring that faggot over here for us? We'll turn him into our brother-in-law and make him a man. C'mon, what do you say!" 

They started laughing.

"I don't think we should take this any further. Let's shut up and get out of here," Manmohan advised.

Quietly, they started walking. A pall of silence had fallen over them. But as soon as they turned the corner to the canteen, another rock whizzed past and hit Aabha in the head. She cried out and fell down. Her glasses broke and blood streamed from her forehead.

"Did you come to this university to study or to womanize? This is our first warning. Watch yourself, hero. Otherwise we'll set your clock straight." From behind came another voice from among them. "And go fuck your baoo!"

"Baoo" means mother.

So they went to the proctor's office to lodge a complaint. This much bullying and abuse was unimaginable. Aabha went to the dispensary to have her wound dressed. She couldn't see without her glasses. And on top of everything else, finals were looming. 

Dr. Chaturvedi was the proctor. He listened to the whole story while using a toothpick to dig at bits of supari caught in his teeth. Then he sat up straight and said in a serious but indulging voice, "Look, this isn't Delhi or London. If you go around having your fun with these kind of fashion girls, well, something's bound to happen. Everyone checks out the girls. Forget about the students, the teachers aren't that far behind. Today you got a rock thrown at you. Tomorrow you'll flunk your courses."

"But sir! We weren't having that kind of fun at all. We were just going to the canteen before our next period for some refreshments," Rahul countered.

"And where have you come from, mister smarty pants? And what's up with the hair, kid? Is that what girls go for nowadays?" Proctor Chaturvedi said sarcastically. "Look, mister, if making friends with girls is such a big hobby of yours, then at least put some money in your pocket. Get a car. Why risk walking around so openly with them? All the cars with their tinted windows I see driving from town onto campus, who knows what-all goes on inside? C'mon, there are hotels everywhere-why don't you try there? If you keep on like this, it'll be dangerous for the girls, not just for you. It's a bad atmosphere here. There'll be nonsense scrawled all over the walls on campus in no time. It's nothing to you, but what happens to the poor bachelorette whose name's been dragged through the mud and is left high and dry?"

"Sir, you are misunderstanding, sir." Manmohan whimpered.

"I'm not misunderstanding. You are," Chaturvedi said, finishing with his teeth. "Your minds have gone bad from watching too much TV. Focus on your studies. And about today's little incident. What should I do, summon the deputy of police? By all means, go and press charges. But don't forget that these boys are locals. They only hit you on the head with a rock today as a warning. They were just messing with you. But tomorrow they'll break into your hostel and beat you senseless. This is my advice for you people: quietly return to your department, and in the future don't walk around together like that."

They left. The pain in Aabha's head was getting worse. Rahul felt the back of his head swelling up a bit.

So this was the postmodern age when Valentine's Day was celebrated in small towns and the demand for cake and Archie's greetings cards for New Year's Eve was on the rise, even in the roughest, most backward neighborhoods, thanks to ads on TV.

Watch the ascetic with the shorn head drink Pepsi and break-dance in front of the Ram temple, a pistol for a phallus. And look at his sacks, nearly bursting with dirty money from Ibrahim, the famous Mafiso and resident of Dubai. Vote for him-he'll bring on the Hindu Raj. 

The swelling on Rahul's head began to throb. He feared he'd lost some blood.
 
VI
 
The event happened in Rahul's life sometime around 2:30 in the afternoon, the kind of event that happens for some only once in a lifetime.

There were a few clouds left in the sky since it had rained two days before. All of the rain-washed trees and buildings sparkled in the midday sun. 

The color of August is a lush, deep green, and the days are filled with the earthy fragrance of wet grass. Going for a walk in August means having your shoes muddied with blades of grass or tender shoots. It's the season for eating roasted corn on the cob.

After the stone-throwing incident, Rahul and his friends were on alert. The day in Rahul's life when the event would happen, he was sitting with his friends in the department common room. Aabha, Seema Philip, Manmohan, Rana, Anima, Raju, Renu, Neera Didi, and Bhagvat. They were eating their corn on the cob and started playing Hindi film song games, arguing about cricket and TV serials, and wound up playing the table like a tabla and taking turns singing songs. They'd bolted the windows and doors from the inside to be sure no local would come in and cause trouble. It was two days until the holiday of rakshabandan, when sisters tie colorful threads of affection-the rakhi-around the wrists of their brothers. Talk was thick about which girls would, by dint of tying the rakhi around the wrist of a boy or a teacher, cancel the one-sided soap opera once and for all and recast the once aspiring lover as trusted brother. Raju and Neera Didi had in their possession a bona fide treasure-trove of juicy info. 

Neera Didi began. "So Aggrawal Sir is always coming to campus these days wearing this cap. The other day when it started raining the cap got so soaked; the water went through it like an old rag. But still he wouldn't take it off. He didn't want Rita Saxena to see his bald head and go run off with someone else."

<i>"If a girl sits on Aggrawal Sir's bald head, she'll slip and she'll fall and she might wind up dead,</i>" Raju rhymed along with his tabla-like drumming on the table. 

"And then there's that Hindi poet guy, Tivari Sir. I heard the other day the librarian told him off in front of everyone. She asked, 'Do you come to the library to look at the books, or to spy on the girls?'"

<i>"He's a peeper and a voyeurist!</i> They say that he even calls the parents of girls to tell on them. He got beaten up for it once."

"The jerk even won the Padmashree. <i>He is a great leech.</i> He's in London now at the behest of the World Hindi Conference."

That day Amina was wearing a dark rose sleeveless blouse and a sea-blue silk sari. It went with her darker complexion and gave her some pizzazz. Her pimply, flat face had a mischievousness twinkle like a kid's, but her eyes were big and innocent. She sang: 
 
<i>Oh lover of my youth, please don't leave my heart
When you think of me, please pray we'll never part </i>
 
and then
 
<i>Our love is perfect, lover, so strong it will not break
he who puts me to the test should come with rings and cake
listen, lover...</i>
 
Anima's windpipe was like a sorrowful flute whose notes didn't project outward, but rather inward, descending somewhere deep inside. Raju's fingers were lost in his drumming. What kind of sadness must there be inside of this dusky girl that made her voice well up so? 

Aabha sang a rap song she'd written herself. It was a riot. Rahul pitched in with a Panjabi pop song of Hansraj:
 
<i>soniye ni soniye ni soniye, mukhra na ja ni morke chal mere sang nal sara jag chor kei</i>
 
The song was so catchy that soon Rana, Nira Didi, Aaba, Anima and the rest joined in. 

"How about some Daler Mendhi?" Raju requested. 

Just then someone knocked on the door.

The tabla once again turned into a mute, wooden table as silence spread through the room. At this hour? Who could it be? All of the teachers were off at the Vice Chancellor's residence and wouldn't be back until five in the evening. 

Could it be some gang member? In their singing reverie they'd forgotten that their voices probably carried into the corridor.

Rahul went to the door and unlatched it.

And there she was, standing at the door. She, whom Rahul saw for the first time in his life. 

Two big eyes brimming with surprise. On the brink of laughter, her lips and cute little nose suddenly froze. She wore a Jaipuri tie-dyed green, yellow-and-red-spotted chunni. Her kurta was the yellow of spring flowers and her salwar was white.

She was very fair-skinned, with nod towards honey brown.
"Hi Anjali!" Seema Philip and Anima called out.
"What are you guys up to? I didn't disturb anything, did I?" Anjali asked, sitting down next to Anima. 

"No, yaar, you just logged on to www.time-pass-musical.com," Seema said. 

"Do you want some corn on the cob? I've got half of mine left," offered Renu.

"Heaven forbid! She's a strict Brahmin," Seema said in jest. "She'll become an outcaste if she eats that defiled piece of corn of yours."

Anjali began to munch on the corn. Rahul watched her. How could one girl look so beautiful, so innocent, so helpless? 

Rahul felt as if a cool, peaceful breeze had entered the room with Anjali.
 
<i>Chappa, chappa charkha chale, awni bawni bereyon tale...</i>
 
Raju picked up the tempo on the table again. Then, in a halting, barely audible voice, Rana began singing, while Rahul joined in here and there.

It turned out that Anjali was the daughter of Joshi, a state minister. A.K. Joshi, Minister of the Public Works Department. The family must have come from the hills once upon a time, but they'd been living here for generations. Joshi had started as a forest contractor, and then became a builder. He'd made millions. During this round of elections, his first time running for office, Joshi got on the ticket for the state legislature, won, and then finagled a ministerial appointment. Behind him was the full weight of the businessmen, contractors, and property dealers. He could also count on such criminal characters as Acchan, Bablu, and Lakhan Pandey.

Joshi was considered one better than Chanakya-the Machiavellian political sage-or so was the common belief in the area. People said that one day he'd go far in national politics. Astrologers saw clearly that it was in the stars.

And Anjali?

That girl munching merrily away on her corn on the cob?

Anjali was the girlfriend of Seema Philip and Anima. The three of them had gone to the same Inter-College for girls and had been inseparable. Anima said that Anjali was doing her M.A. in Hindi. 

An M.A. in Hindi?

Rahul did a double take. An image of the Hindi department flashed before his eyes: the dull, gray, sick-looking walls, the red stains from paan juice spat out, garbage strewn in the corners, filth everywhere. It was as if the finest part of the university had been plunged into a terminal darkness. The mysterious building was serving a life sentence in solitary confinement.

And the people who came in and out of that department! They didn't look like they were living in today's world. From the clothes that they wore to the way they walked and talked, they were completely <i>other</i>. One would often see those guys together in a group around campus. Girls would see them and take fright. They spoke in high-pitched voices, screeching loudly, clapping their hands, having a coughing fit, all the while laughing at their own jokes in a sound like that of primal man before the dawn of civilization. <i>Ha-ha, hee-hee, hoo-hoo.</i>

They were ridiculous and frightful all at the same time, and inspired both pity and fear. They spoke in a peculiar language among themselves-some spirit tongue of a dead culture. 

Hindi, Urdu, and Sanskrit: nobody really knew for sure the raison d'etre for these three departments. What kind of future would their graduates have? No one had a clue. Those boys were pitiful, misfits, backward, isolated from the real world, while their teachers fit the same kind of caricature. One would shamelessly scratch his crotch in public, while another shaved-headed dhoti-clad Ram-worshipper type would ogle some girl like a chimpanzee. 

Students on campus jokingly referred to the department the as the "half-price house." Girls who had brains and talent took admission in the other departments in the university mainstream. Only the leftovers took admission in the Hindi department. One look at them and you knew: <i>dropouts.</i> 

Could this Anjali Joshi really be in that very same department of Hindi? What if she also turns into a mother gorilla next week? She'll look like some forest-dwelling rishi chick, speaking in middle Indo-Aryan or Pali, smeared with turmeric paste, drinking boiled cow or yak's milk. 

Rahul heard from Anima that Anjali had been quite ill around the time of her graduation. She'd come down with jaundice, and took her exams in that condition. Her grades, understandably, were simply awful, and she barely passed. So her father had a word with S.N. Mishra, the head of the Hindi department, and secured her admission. 

Kinnu Da once said, "Take any language. As long as there is some group of people communicating with it, it won't vanish. In spite of the massive spread of European languages, centuries of colonialism and imperialist subjugation, the itsy-bitsy indigenous languages of Africa and Asia still haven't been eradicated. Living languages still exist today, like Ho, which is spoken by only a few adivasis."

<i>So, they are the tribals!</i> They are the adivasis of today.

"No, those aren't the adivasis," Kartikeya countered, "they're the Muslim mullahs and the Hindu purohits. Don't forget, an adivasi is never <i>retrogressive</i> and never dumb."

I'll become a gorilla too. A homo sapien. A purohit. I'll chew paan and gutkha, run around in a pack and laugh, <i>Ha-ha, hee-hee, hoo-hoo.</i>

Rahul watched from the corridor. In between Anima and Seema Philip was Anjali Joshi. She was about to leave. In her right hand she held a parasol. A yellow parasol.

That was definitely the very same back that deflected the sun's rays from Room 252. "If I had a slingshot," Rahul thought, "I'd pull the rubber all the way back and then let loose a shot."

A voice drenched in melody, gratitude, and sweet sorrow would moan "Oooooooh," and then she would turn around with those stunned, eager, inviting eyes. 

And in that pose, she would be frozen.

In truth, that day was the first time in Rahul's life that a real, living, breathing, flesh-and-blood girl had been captured in a freeze-frame. 

And that girl's name was Anjali Joshi.














.